Last time I went on a rant about Excel and now you're probably thinking it's a horrible tool that will
ruin your career.
The truth is I don't have anything against Excel.
You just have to know how to use it correctly for data science work and everything will flow smoothly
and that's what I will teach you in this tutorial to start off.
Let's copy the file from the original data folder into the prepared folder.
You can now see how valuable it is to always have a copy of your original file in the case of a screw
up.
The next thing we need to do is to change the file extension from CSP to teach XTi like this.
Note that if you cannot see your file extension you can easily fix this.
Simply click anywhere in your folder.
Then press alt on your keyboard.
Now go into Tools Folder Options go into the View tab and and check the box that says hide extensions
for known file types click OK.
Now you should see the extension next.
Open up Excel instead of dragging the file into Excel which will open it up within the program.
And because this is now a text file this will force Excel to bring up the data import wizard.
Go to file open no copy your folder path and pasted into the open window.
Select all files in the bottom right and choose your file and click open.
You can see that the import wizard has popped up in the first step.
Make sure delimited is selected and click next.
By default the tab delimiters selected and selected and change to comma.
Also make sure that the text qualifier is set to quotation marks.
You can see that the data preview has changed and your columns are being recognized correctly.
Scroll through to the right to make sure all your columns have been picked up correctly.
Now you can click next.
Step three is the most important step.
We're going to tell Excel not to guess our datatypes and instead import all of it as text.
This is how you do it.
Select the first column and then scroll to the very last column and selected while holding down the
shift key on your keyboard.
This selects all of your columns now and the column data format.
Select text and click Finish.
After a second or two the data will load and now all of it is recognized as text.
Essentially this is the same thing as what notepad plus plus does but it's just easier to navigate as
you recall.
There are two things that we have to do in this phase of the.
Fix up the dates and fix up the dollar amounts.
Today we will add a third item to that list.
First let's fix up the dates since all of our doors and TX the previous method won't work anymore.
Simply changing the format of a column won't do anything.
Follow me and I will show you a technique that works for text fields every time.
Select the whole column.
Now go to the data tab at the top and find text two columns and familiar with it pops up.
This is the same wizard We used to import the text file only now we're using it for one specific column
.
Make sure delimited is selected and click Next now and check any type of delimiter we're dealing with
only one coalman and therefore we don't need a delimiter.
The TX qualifier doesn't matter either.
Click next.
Your column is selected at the bottom.
All you have to do is change the column data format from General to date and specify which date format
Excel will be dealing with.
In our case it's month day year.
Finally the destination here is x 1 which means that the new data will replace your old column.
That is exactly what we need.
Click Finish as you can see the dates have now been recognized by Excel correctly.
Now we will change the format of the dates just as we did previously.
Select the whole column right click and choose format cells.
If your Excel has the format we need under the dates category then select it there.
Otherwise go to custom and specify the format we need since we've used it before.
Excel has saved it for us selected and click OK.
Now dates are in the right format.
Remember you need to do this procedure for every column that has dates in it.
By the way you've probably noticed that this process is taking quite a while and we haven't even gotten
to the Sosias stage yet.
This is exactly what I meant when I said that ECL is about 70 percent of the work of a data scientist
.
This is the reality of things and that's why it's important to have a bulletproof e-tail framework.
It not only saves you from errors but will also save you lots of time.
OK let's get back to it.
Now we are going to fix up the dollar amount.
Similar approach.
First we need to convert the text into a number.
Select the whole column and click text to columns.
Same thing delimited and no delimiter.
In the last step for column data formats select general and click Finish.
Now we can format the columns highlight the whole column and click Format Cells choose number two decimal
places no thousands separator and for negative numbers.
Select the option with a minus.
Click OK.
Purrfect.
We've done the two things.
Dates and balances.
Now let's add the third item totalist viewing CACP files in excel through the text the method is safe
and convenient but it comes with a price.
Have a look at this feedback code.
No we're here.
You've probably already noticed these hashtags in some of the rows.
If you click on the cell then in the formula bar you will see that it does have text.
However it's replaced of hash tags in the display.
This happens when the text is too long.
Excel can only fit up to 256 characters into each cell which is formatted as Text.
If you save the file now you will lose this data in order to fix the problem.
Select the feedback column right click and select Format Cells.
Select the general category and click OK.
Now the comments are being displayed correctly.
Great.
Your file is ready to go.
Let's save it click File Save As and from the dropdown.
Select CXVII click save
close excel and now you can delete the txt file.
Let's have a look at the CSP file and notepad plus plus here you can see that there are no hashtags
.
The balances are being displayed without commas or dollar signs and if we scroll over to the right you
can see that the dates are shown in the right format.
The first row has been correctly recognized as 11th of August and the credit card numbers are still
here.
That's perfect.
The file can be uploaded now